*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 71045 ***






                                  THE
                             INTERPRETATION
                                   OF
                                 DREAMS
                                  AND
                                 MOLES,
                      WITH OTHER CURIOUS MATTERS,
                              RELATING TO
                          LOVE AND COURTSHIP.


                               CONTENTS.

1. Opinions of Philosophers and Sages on this subject.

2. Dreams and Moles interpreted.

3. Advice to Bachelors, Maids, Widowers, & Widows.

4. Exact Rules, whereby a Man or Woman may know if they shall obtain
the one they love.

5. How to chuse a good Husband or a virtuous Wife.

6. Signs of Love and speedy Marriage, also the Signs of Crosses and
Disappointments in Love.

7. Palmistry, or how to discover the good or ill fortune of Individuals
by certain characters or semblance of letters on the hand.

8. Significations of Lines on the Hand, relative to Love, Marriage, or
Business.

9. A Prognostication concerning the birth of Children on every day of
the week.

10. A division of Man’s Age into twelve times six periods and the duty
of each.

                          Newcastle upon Tyne:
            Printed by J. Marshall in the Old Flesh-Market,
       _Where may also be had, a large and interesting Collection
               of Songs, Ballads, Tales, Histories, &c._




                                  THE

                            INTERPRETATION

                                  OF

                           DREAMS AND MOLES.




                             INTRODUCTION.


Dreams, though some, very ignorant in such rare mysteries, have
slighted them, are, by the Sages and Wise Men of all ages, considered
very significant; and that the soul, when the body reposes, being
disencumbered from gross and weighty cares for the flesh, by this
unknown mysterious way confabulates or converses with Spirits of
Angels, who bring to its knowledge future events, very strange and
wonderful; as in scripture we find it in Pharaoh’s, Nebuchadnezzar’s,
and other dreams, that exactly came to pass, according to their
interpretations. But not to prolong the matter, I proceed, by the rules
of art, to give the interpretation of Dreams.




                         _DREAMS INTERPRETED._


To dream one is flying in the air, promises hasty news.

To dream one swims with pleasure in tossing water, denotes overcoming
some difficult matter you have in hand.

To dream you hear birds sing melodiously, betokens joy to people in
health; and to the sick, recovery.

To dream one presents you with a gold ring, and puts it on your finger,
or ties on your garter on your right leg, it foreshews speedy marriage
to either party.

To dream you are dancing in a jolly company, signifies much joy and
mirth in the course of the following day.

To dream some furious beast pursues you, and you cannot avoid it,
betokens your enemies will prevail against you.

To dream you are stung or bitten by serpents or insects, denotes
mischief to come from malicious and private enemies.

To dream you meet a lion, who fawns on you, denotes the favour of great
ones.

To dream you meet a black coffin, with mourners, denotes the death of a
friend.

To dream that a dove is on your hand, or in your view, means constancy.

To dream that one fights and overcomes, denotes success in what you are
contending for, or escaping dangers.

To dream you are washing your hands, and the dirt comes clean off,
signifies you shall perform some great enterprize.

To dream your eyes or teeth fall out, denotes sickness or death of
children, or some intimate friend or relation.

To dream one’s shoes fall off, or are old and torn, denotes poverty and
distress.

To dream a horse runs away with you, denotes unexpected business, not
pleasant.

To dream a gold ring breaks, and falls from your finger, denotes the
loss of a lover, or some dear friend.

To dream you are sailing on a calm sea, denotes a peaceable life; but
suddenly overtaken in a storm, trouble and affliction.

To dream of courting a beautiful woman, betokens crosses and vexation.

To dream you put on very fine clothes, denotes to both sexes high
preferment.

To dream you hunt a hare, but cannot take her, denotes the loss of some
matter you are in earnest pursuit of.

To dream your lover is absent, when he is actually at home, means he
will neglect you; but if he is really absent, it means that he is true.

To dream you endeavour to fly, and cannot, betokens imprisonment, or
some restraint of what you are in pursuit of.

A virgin dreaming she is putting on a new garment, denotes an
alteration of her condition by marriage or otherwise.

To dream you see a piece of paper in flames, denotes the party will be
happy in a marriage state in friends and affection.

To dream one receives a letter, denotes love and constancy, or that the
party shall have satisfaction in what he desires.

To dream one puts on new white gloves denotes the marriage of friends;
but black ones, their death, or removal to a distance.

For a woman to dream she is with child, denotes sorrow and hard labour;
but to dream she is delivered, the contrary.

To dream you see a withered tree sprouting out, denotes children in old
age.

To dream you are cast away in a shipwreck, denotes losses in goods and
estate.

To dream of ribbons and gay plumes of feathers, denotes increase of
fortune.

To dream of your grave or tomb, promises you children, but loss of
memory.

To dream that your lover is driving a pig, denotes that he is of a
headstrong disposition, and likely to prove a drunkard.

To dream you are among sheep, means repose from trouble. To dream you
meet a flock is lucky.

To dream you dance aloft in some high place, threatens danger, or that
the party will be in danger of an untimely end.

To dream one wears a garland promises the party honour, repute, and
preferment.

To dream your living friends are dead, is a sign they are in health.

To dream one is in danger of being killed, denotes deliverance from
danger.

To dream you embrace, without power to speak, denotes the party to fall
in love, but shall not obtain the person desired.

To dream of singing and music, denotes you shall soon hear of the
marriage of some very near friend or relation.

To dream you hear magpies chatter, denotes brawling and contention.

For a barren woman to dream she embraces one of her own sex, denotes
that in time she shall have children, but to a fruitful woman it
denotes very great pain and sorrow in child bearing.

For lovers to dream they fall out and quarrel, signifies constancy and
affection.

To dream you see a little spring increase to a river or lake, signifies
an increase of riches and great preferment in the world.

To dream that you are climbing mountains or rocks, means that your love
is vain or not returned.

To dream of a house on fire means anger.

To dream of young birds, signifies that the person will soon get news
of child-birth.

To dream one receives a letter, denotes good success in love, or the
speedy arrival of absent friends.

To dream of storms and a troubled sky, denotes that the person will get
anger.

To dream of the chattering of swallows, denotes sickness or other
infirmities.

For a maid to dream that she kisses her sweetheart, is a sign of true
love and affection, and that they will soon be joined in marriage.

To see great feasts, and partake of them, signifies plenty; but if you
are debarred from eating them, want and poverty.

To dream you catch great store of fish, denotes you will attain to
great riches.

To dream of dead relations, promises you will soon see some friend.

To dream you receive money is lucky; but to dream of finding money,
denotes that you will meet with a very great disappointment.

For a maid to write the numeral figures in her own name, and lay them
under her pillow, on the first Friday in the month, if she dreams she
sees any person writting or casting up accounts, she may expect to have
sudden overtures of marriage, and a happy life.

To dream of a great fire, signifies sickness, or discontent with the
person’s lot.

To dream the sun shines bright in your house, foretells very great
prosperity.

To dream you see an egg hang by a string at your bed head, signifies
finding great store of hidden treasure.

To dream of shaking hands, signifies to both sexes, courtship and love.

To dream of young birds, doth signify to woman, child-birth.

To dream you are bit by a serpent, signifies some danger will befal you
by secret and subtile enemies.

To dream you fly in the air, signifies a speedy journey, or some hasty
news.

To dream that you fight and overcome, signifies you will get the better
in law suits, or other controversies.

To dream a lion fawns upon you, denotes the favour of great persons.

To dream of black coffins and mourners, denotes the death of some
loving friend or relation.

To dream you see a friend dead, denotes the party to be in good health.

To dream of bees denotes active friends, or if they sting, busy
enemies, or the buzzing of evil reports.

To dream of milking cows denotes a wealthy lover.




                                   A

                          TREATISE ON MOLES,

                      AND THEIR PROGNOSTICATION.


A Mole on the forehead of a man or woman, denotes they shall grow
rich, and obtain great possessions, being beloved by their friends and
neighbours.

A Mole appearing on the upper side of the right temple, in either sex,
denotes another on the extremity of the belly; signifying to a man a
steady fortune, and a continuation of riches; and to a woman, a happy
marriage, and a peaceful life.

A man or woman having a Mole near the eye-brow on the right temple,
denotes another on the right loin, signifying the party will gain
much esteem, favour, love and advantage, and considerable riches, by
legacies, dowries, and reversions.

A Mole on the throat, on the left side of the wind-pipe, denotes
another on the right side of the hip, and signifies that the person,
if a man, will suffer much by falls and bruises; but if a woman, it
prognosticates danger by water or lightning.

A Mole on the right side of the face, behind the eye, denotes another
on the right side of the buttock or haunch; signifying much honour and
preferment to befall a man; and to a woman, much praise for her virtue,
and a continuation of prosperity.

A Mole appearing on the right side of the temple, in the lower part,
inclining somewhat towards the neck, denotes another on the right ribs;
shews a man to be of natural promptness, and industrious; and thereby
obtaining great riches: to a woman it promises good fortune, long life,
modesty, and chastity.

A Mole on the left side of the face, towards the upper part of the
corner of the eye, denotes another under the left loin or thigh;
signifies, to either sex, peril in travel, and dangerous diseases, with
great trouble, discontent, and sometimes a violent and very sudden
death.

A Mole on the left side of the temple, near the eye-lid, in a man or
woman, denotes another on the left side of the buttock; and betokens a
rustic, harsh, and sordid temper, and that the party shall be held in
contempt by their acquaintances.

A Mole appearing on the left side of the face, near the corner of the
eye, denotes another on the left buttock, signifying much sickness and
trouble, many thwartings and unexpected crosses and disappointments.

A Mole on the left cheek, inclining towards the lower part of the ear,
denotes another on the left thigh; and signifies, to a man, sorrow
and anguish, crosses by children, and losses by goods or estate; and
threatening woman with great trouble, and danger of death in child bed.

A Mole on the upper part of the right ear, denotes another on the right
side of the belly; signifying to a man, he will commit such crimes as
will cause him to fall into the hands of Justice, and endanger his
life; and denotes a woman to be false, cruel, and of a very inconstant
disposition.

A Mole on the lower part of the tip of the ear, denotes another on the
right side; and predicts a man or woman liable to hurts and bruises
by falls or blows, with many other casualties, which may very much
endanger their lives and property.

A Mole on the outside of the upper parts of the left ear of a man or
woman, denotes another on the left side of the belly; which threatens
the former with great misfortunes, and the latter with infamy and
disgrace, though very undeserved.

A Mole on the chin of a woman denotes her to be of a hasty, crabbed,
ill-natured disposition; but on a man it denotes mildness.

A Mole on the middle of the left ear, shews the like is to be found
on the lower part of the left side; denoting a man to be of an evil
nature, cruel and inhuman; and to a woman it portends great trouble and
short life.

A Mole on the lower part of the left ear shews the like on the lower
part of the left side; denoting a man to fall into great trouble by
means of women, by quarrelling and fighting on their behalf; and
betokens a woman to be of a mischievous disposition, one who should be
detested, threatening her with the commission of murder, by poison or
otherwise.

A Mole on the lower part of the eye-lid, between the hollow of the eye
and the beginning of the nose, in either sex, shews another on the
right side of the privy-part, denoting a man much beloved and admired
by the women, and fortunate in marriage; and a woman to be ingenuous,
chaste, and faithful.

A Mole under the hollow of the right eye, by the inward part of the
nose, denotes another on the middle of the body, above the members,
signifying a man to be hasty, proud, and furious; and a woman to
be self-conceited, vain-glorious, and of a very weak and shallow
understanding, though a great pretender to knowledge in every respect.




                                ADVICE

                                TO ALL

               _Bachelors, Maids, Widowers, and Widows_.


There are certain Rules which must be observed in Courtship: And
first, to maids who have not possessed their first blushes, your first
addresses must be with gentleness and modesty, lest you fright them
with an opinion that you are rude and uncivil of behaviour, and rather
aim at debauching them than at marriage: And you must be brisk with
them, or they will take you for a drone without a sting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Widows, especially the young ones, are gamesome and buxom, for having
once smelt to the spit, they always love a good joint; those you must
entertain with some merry discourse, and lay aside whining or solemn
protestations; kiss them till their ears crack; and when you find a
convenient time and place, warm them with caresses, squeezing their
hand, gently treading on their toes; and when you kiss, bear close to
them, and you will soon perceive, by their eager looks, blushing, and
their often changing of colour, that now is the time to ask a favour,
to which you will have a faint denial, if any at all, and then make use
of your time, and press forward without delays, for they are dangerous;
and many a fair opportunity has slipt, that could not be recovered,
though earnestly pursued.

As for maids or widows, if you like a brisk man, and are bashful, you
may use dumb signs, which is called love’s silent language, gaze on his
face; then, when he perceives it, suddenly take off your eyes, and turn
your head aside, blush naturally, forcingly hold in your breathing,
and start a little when first you see him at any time, as if you
were surprized; if he takes you by the hand, grasp him with a little
trembling, and then seem to withdraw your hand again, as if uneasy. If
he kisses you, stay your lips on his awhile, with great affection; and
he must be very dull that will not take these for the signs of tender
love.

Above all things, either man or woman ought to conduct themselves with
perfect modesty and decorum, in the presence of those they esteem, as
it is the most certain method of gaining their esteem and love.

More might be said on this subject, but nature and practice are the
best instructors.




                             EXACT RULES,

  _Whereby a Man or Woman may know if they shall obtain the one they
                                love_.


To know this, which hath been held for a great secret, put their
Christian and Sirnames together, and consider what numbers the letters
make that stand for numbers in them; as the I, stands for one; V, for
five; X, for ten; L, for fifty; C, for a hundred; M, for a thousand; D,
for five hundred, &c. Write every letter on a separate piece of paper,
roll them up, and put the billets into any thing, and then shake them
together: And, in drawing, if the number of your names comes up to what
it would, in so many billets which, you put in for, you will be happy
in your desire; but if a cross number arise, you will meet with many
disappointments.




     _How a Young Man or Woman may choose a good Husband or Wife._


The hair in this case is commonly very remarkable and most significant.

Black hair signifies the person rash, choleric, given much to quarrels
and strife; but if it be soft and pliable, the person is moderately
meek and humble, of a free temper and good nature.

Dark brown hair signifies an indifferent good temper loving and
affable, one easy to be wrought on with good usage.

Light brown hair, that is not harsh or broken at the ends, shews the
party very loving and good natured, industrious and patient in the
pleasure of marriage.

Flaxen hair is Venus’s own colour, and rarely fails, in any one, to
render a soft, kind temper, usually of a fair and sanguine complexion,
very amorous, and apt to love.

Dusky red hair, shews the person melancholy, and of a morose temper,
not much subject to love, but covetous, and anxious to obtain honour
and riches.

Bright or deep red hair shews the party to be very lecherous; one that
will have many children, and very pleasing in marriage; yet apt to
stray if satisfaction in marriage fails. It also signifieth the party
wise and industrious, not designed for great riches.

Any colours that are intermixed between these, participate equally of
the temper, qualities, good nature, and humours, that I have mentioned
in the degrees of mixtures. And thus many a man or woman may make their
conjecture, and so be happy.




 _Signs of Love and speedy Marriage, or the contrary, by seeing or
 meeting divers sorts of creatures at first in the mornings and various
 other circumstances._


These signs of love and marriage, have been greatly taken notice of, in
their exact succeeding, according to the desire of the parties, and are
as follows, _viz._

 1. For a woman to have the first and last letters of her Christian
 name the same with the man’s Sir-name that makes love to her, denotes
 a happy union, and that the man will be a generous lover.

 2. For the man to have the first and last letters of his Christian
 name the same with the woman’s Sir-name, denotes the same.

 3. To think on a person upon sudden waking, without any meditation,
 upon a Friday morning, that before had a place in the affections of a
 man or woman, is a demonstration that love or extraordinary friendship
 will take place between them.

 4. If a ring accidently fall off a man’s finger that is under no
 obligation of marriage, and runs directly to the foot of a maid or
 widow, it denotes not only he is in love with the party, but that a
 sudden marriage will ensue between them.

 5. If a robin red-breast comes fluttering to your window, and sings
 very pleasantly, perching near it, it denotes a very speedy marriage.

 6. If a hare start in your way, and run on your right hand, you will
 have success in love affairs; but if she cross you, or run on the left
 hand, it denotes you will be interrupted by others as rivals.

 7. If swallows chatter merrily, and sing in the chimney of the chamber
 where you lie, it denotes you will have many sweethearts, and be
 kindly treated.

 8. Bats fluttering at your window, betokens misfortunes in love. The
 croaking of ravens being the first thing you hear in the morning,
 denotes the same.

 9. To meet a sow, on first going out in the morning, carrying straw in
 her mouth, denotes that a maid or widow will soon be married, and be
 fruitful in children.

 10. To hear magpies chatter, and flying about as you walk abroad,
 denotes much strife and brawling in marriage.

 11. If walking abroad with your sweetheart you perceive a pair of
 pigeons encircle you round, it is a sign of marriage and happiness to
 ensue, with contentment.

 12. If one drops their garter, when going to see their sweetheart, it
 denotes they will meet with a cold reception.




                _How to choose a good Husband or Wife._


1. If the man be of a ruddy complexion, high and full nosed, his
eye-brows bending archwise, his eyes standing full, of a black and
lively colour it denotes him to be good natured, ingenious, and born to
good fortune; and the same of a woman, if she be born under the planet
Jupiter.

2. If a party be phlegmatic, lean, and of a dusky complexion, and much
given to musing or melancholy, beware of such an one, of what sex
soever.

3. An indifferent wide mouth, with full cheeks, smooth forehead, little
ears, dark brown hair, and a chin proportionable to the face, is very
promising.

4. An extraordinary thin chin, with the under lip larger than the
upper, signifies a cross grained person, fit for little performance,
yet given to great folly.

5. A long nose on a man, and a little mouth in a woman, signifies
neither can be deceived in their marriage views.

6. A well set broad chin in a man, his face being round, and not too
great, and a dimple or dint in a woman’s cheek or chin, denotes they
will come together, and live happy in their married state.




                           ART OF PALMISTRY.

 _Several Characters or Semblance of Letters and Lines in the Hand, as
 they tend to signify Riches, Honour, long Life, short Life, Poverty,
 Loss, number of Wives, or Children, Sickness; untimely Death and many
 other things, according to the Art of Palmistry._


There are in this case divers Letters and Lines appearing in the hand,
by which the wise of all ages have given judgment, in the foregoing
premises.

 1. If the character A, be found on the mount of _Jupiter_, or the
 root of the middle finger, it promises a growing fortune, and perhaps
 considerable preferment, by the favour of princes and great men.

 2. If a B be found on the mount of the _Sun_, which is at the root of
 the fourth finger, it signifies length of days, prosperity, much to be
 credited, also a virtuous person.

 3. If O, with a star over it, appears on the mount of _Venus_, it
 gives the person early and happy marriage, promises many children, and
 a merry and happy life.

 4. If the letter L be on the mount of _Saturn_, which is at the root
 of the middle finger, and be cut with cross lines, it denotes the
 party to undergo much affliction, to be given up to melancholy, and
 to be but very tender and of short life, &c.

 5. the letter K, upon the mount of _Mercury_, which is at the root
 of the little finger, denotes the party to rise to preferment by
 ingenuity and a happy marriage.

 6. The letter D, on the mount of the Moon, denotes the party to be
 kind and good-natured, and much beloved.

 7. The letter G, in the plain of _Mars_, near the line of life,
 speaks the party to be of a violent temper, given up to anger, and
 threatens him or her with sudden or untimely death: However, to a
 woman it promises a good husband, that shall grow great in military
 affairs.--Thus much for the characters of this kind on the hand.




    _Lines in the Hand, and their Significations, relating to Love,
                       Marriage, Business, &c._


1. If the Table Line be broad, fair, and well coloured, it signifies
the party, if a man, will have two wives; if a woman, as many husbands,
and lucky marriages.

2. If the Line of life extends itself from the root of the fore finger
to the mount of the Moon, or the brawn of the hand, it then denotes
long life: but if it be cut short, and divided by many crosses, the
contrary.

3. If the girdle of _Venus_, which reaches from the outside of the hand
to the root of the middle finger, be fair and well proportioned, not
cut or divided by cross lines, it denotes to the party extraordinary
advantage by marriage.----Several little crosses upon the Liver line,
which runs directly upon the hand, denotes sickness and an unhealthy
constitution; but if it be fair and clean it signifies health and long
life.

4. If little direct lines come from the root of the finger, they
signify to a woman to have three husbands; and to a man, great riches,
honour, and preferment.

5. If they have three large lines on the joint of the wrist, it denotes
easy childbearing, and not subject to miscarriage.

6. If the nails of the hand be transparent, red, long, and of a fair
complexion, it is a sign of long life; but if cloudy, dark, or of a
lead colour, the contrary.

7. If the line branch toward the fore and middle finger, and end blunt,
it betokens riches and preferment to men; and to women, kind and loving
husbands.

8. If there happen a cut or separation between your two left fingers,
it denotes loss if not ruin to the party, by commerce or law-suits--Thus
much for these Lines, and for their different significations.




                           A Prognostication

     _Concerning the BIRTH of CHILDREN on every Day of the Week_.


1. They that are born on a Sunday, will, in all probability, be great
and thriving.

2. They that are born on Monday, will likely prosper in beginning work
that day.

3. They that are born on Tuesday, will be covetous and be in danger of
perishing by iron, and hardly come to old age; but to begin any thing
on that day is lucky.

4. They that are born on a Wednesday, will be very slow in learning any
thing.

5. They that are born on a Thursday, will be steady and respectable;
and to begin any work or business on that day is fortunate.

6. They that are born on a Friday, will live long, and be extremely
lecherous.

7. They that are born on a Saturday, shall seldom be successful, except
the course of the moon do bring him to it.




_A Division of Man’s Age into Twelve times Six periods, and the Duty of
                                each._


 6. The first six years bring him up a child,

 12. The next keep him under from waxing too wild,

 18. The next let him learn no longer to toy,

 24. The next a man, and no longer a boy,

 30. The next let him lay out for a wife,

 36. The next make his study to thrive,

 42. The next make sure for a term of life,

 48. The next save something for children and wife,

 54. The next to be said, give over thy lust,

 60. The next O think where go thou must,

 66. The next get a staff thy body to stay,

 72. The next prepare for Heaven, Lord shew thee the way!

    Remember that all these divisions post on,
    And that this life will quickly be gone.


                                _FINIS._

                     Marshall, Printer, Newcastle.




                          Transcriber’s Notes

Obvious punctuation errors have been corrected.

Page 4: “suddenly evertaken” changed to “suddenly overtaken”



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 71045 ***
